Add CI docs for test case analyzer (#256)
openshift/ci-docs: content/en/docs/release-oversight/test-case-analyzer.md

---

> title: "Test Case Analyzer"

Reviewer: you sure you want it here instead of in openshift/enhancements.  no one else in org looks here, but they all need to know what this is.

description: Introduction of a new tool to analyze test cases across multiple job runs.
---

### Summary
On top of the existing aggregator framework, the new Test Case Analyzer tool is introduced to analyze specific test results from a much broader set of candidate job runs, without requiring the entire job to pass.

> 

Reviewer 2: It sounds like we're choosing some informing tests to track so that we can get some signal.  Where are those tests configured?

And when the Test Case Analyzer is put into place, will we see a separate section for the results in the same release-controller page we use to monitor nightlies?

Author: The jobs that will be analyzed is the list from the release page we monitor. We choose a subset from that list based on variants. 

Yes, this test case analyzer will appears as a new job in that list.

### Improvement to CI Payload Signals

> CI and nightly payloads run many different jobs. Some of those jobs are blocking while the majority are informing. Failure of any blocking jobs will reject the payload, but informing job results are not utilized in any automated way to provide valuable CI signals. Since the informing job results still carry lots of information about the health of the system, it would be valuable to utilize those results in an automatic way to provide further improvement to the CI Signals.

Reviewer: please line break after every sentence so comments are easier to target.

---
title: "Test Case Analyzer"
description: Introduction of a new tool to analyze test cases across multiple job runs.
---

### Summary

> On top of the existing aggregator framework, a new tool (test case analyzer) is introduced to analyze test results from a much broader candidate job runs. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
On top of the existing aggregator framework, the new Test Case Analyzer tool is introduced to analyze specific test results from a much broader set of candidate job runs, without requiring the entire job to pass.
```

### Further Improvement to CI Payload Signals

> CI and nightly payloads run many different jobs. Some of those jobs are blocking while the majority are informing. Failure of any blocking jobs will reject the payload. But informing job results are not utilized in any automated way to provide valuable CI signals. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
CI and nightly payloads run many different jobs. Some of those jobs are blocking while the majority are informing. Failure of any blocking jobs will reject the payload, but informing job results are not utilized in any automated way to provide valuable CI signals. 
```

> With the introduction of the current aggregator framework, many job runs can be started for the same job and the test results from those job runs are aggregated to provide much better CI signals. This aggregated result can be used to form a blocking signal to the overall payload. This has been working really well to catch issues that were not possible by just analyzing single job runs in isolation. 

Reviewer 3: This is accurate but I suspect you could drop this paragraph and be no worse off. Up to you just a suggestion for thought.

But there are still more that can be desired for further improvement. The majority of the informing job results still carry lots of information about the health of the system. It would be valuable to utilize those results in an automatic way to provide further improvement to the CI Signals.

> Thus, we are introducing the test case analyzer that takes aggregation one step further. This tool gives us the ability to analyze test cases from job runs belonging to multiple different jobs, regardless whether they are informing or blocking jobs. The job runs can be selected by certain variant of interest (e.g platform, network, or infrastructure). Out of the selected group of job runs, one or a subset of the tests can be analyzed using certain criteria. One example criteria is to have a minimum required number of successes. The end result of the analyzer can be used to form a blocking signal for the overall payload.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Test Case Analyzer was created to expand our ability to block payloads by analyzing test cases from job runs belonging to multiple different jobs, regardless of whether they are informing or blocking. The job runs can be selected by certain variants of interest (e.g platform, network, or infrastructure). Out of the selected group of job runs, one or a subset of the tests can be analyzed using certain criteria, the job runs themselves do not have to fully pass. One example criteria is to have a minimum required number of test successes. The end result of the analyzer can be used to form a blocking signal for the overall payload. 
```

This gives us the ability to gate a payload run with information solely from informing jobs. 

### Use Cases

> The initial use case is to analyze installation step across multiple job runs of certain variants. Typically, the installation failure of a blocking job is reflected in the job result and therefore is used to block the payload run. But installation failure for informing jobs are never considered for CI signal. With test case analyzer, we can set a minimum required passes for installations for a certain variant. For example, we can make sure there are at least 2 successful installations for all metal upi jobs for one particular payload run. In this example, even though none of the metal upi job runs are blocking, we can still block the overall payload from results of those informing jobs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The initial use case is to analyze installation step across multiple job runs of certain variants. Typically, the installation failure of a blocking job is reflected in the job result and therefore is used to block the payload run, but installation failure for informing jobs are never considered for CI signal. With the Test Case Analyzer, we can set a minimum required passes for installations for a certain variant. For example, we can make sure there are at least 2 successful installations for all metal upi jobs for one particular payload run. In this example, even though none of the metal upi job runs are blocking, we can still block the overall payload from results of those informing jobs if we did not see enough successful installations.
```

> The next potential use case is for analysis of upgrade steps. It is not yet in the current implementation. But it can be easily added with the framework. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The next potential use case is for analysis of upgrade steps. (not yet implemented, but can be easily added with the framework)
```

### PR Payload

> Per PR payload run was introduced to manually run payload jobs in a PR to make sure important PRs do not potentially introduce regression to payloads. It is our intention to support test case analyzer for PR payload jobs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Per PR /payload command was introduced to manually run payload jobs in a PR to make sure important PRs do not potentially introduce product regression. It is our intention to support test case analyzer for PR payload jobs.
```

Some of those jobs are blocking while the majority are informing. 
Failure of any blocking jobs will reject the payload, but informing job results are not utilized in any automated way to provide valuable CI signals. 
Since the informing job results still carry lots of information about the health of the system, it would be valuable to utilize those results in an automatic way to provide further improvement to the CI Signals.

The Test Case Analyzer was created to expand our ability to block payloads by analyzing test cases from job runs belonging to multiple different jobs, regardless of whether they are informing or blocking. 
The job runs can be selected by certain variants of interest (e.g platform, network, or infrastructure). 
Out of the selected group of job runs, one or a subset of the tests can be analyzed using certain criteria, the job runs themselves do not have to fully pass. 
One example criteria is to have a minimum required number of test successes. 
The end result of the analyzer can be used to form a blocking signal for the overall payload.

This gives us the ability to gate a payload run with information solely from informing jobs. 

> ### Use Cases

Reviewer: I think this drives a section that describes the parameters you added to the command to explain how to identify runs for a given payload, how to identify the variants you want to select on, how to decide what tests to select, and how to describe selection criteria.  Think of it in terms of how you'd use use-cases to defend a proposal in a template like: https://github.com/openshift/enhancements/blob/master/guidelines/enhancement_template.md#proposal
